OK.
Please.
Yes Kevin, actually.
No Toronto Raptors, no hoodie, yeah?
Um?
So I have to share my screen
screen too. And then, uh, this one?
And then laser points.
OK.
So before the start, I mean how
was the midterm exam for those?
Before we start today's lecture.
Was it hard or was it easy, was it?
Uh, too much. It was fair
difficulty, but it was long.
It was OK. Not good, not bad.
I see how I tried.
I mean I as as you mentioned,
it was not that hard.
I mean, the difficulty was fair.
And also in the question if you look at
the answer, the answers was very simple,
so I tried to not. Uh.
Put a, I mean a complex answer
that takes a lot of time from you.
Uh. I mean, myself actually put a
timer and solve the problem myself.
I mean to create the key for the answers.
Let's see what's the result?
I'm going to upload the keys so you
can have a look at the keys as well.
And there were some typos.
For instance, there were no questions
for you or not question eight.
Also, in one of the questions,
uh, which was about converting
the number 2 positive or negative
number in different systems.
In the question it was 86 to the base of 10,
so not to base of nine.
But I accept the I mean the answers.
Who does the convert from base 9
to base 10 and then represent it
as negative or positive numbers?
I also created the key for that too.
Also I I mean. Yesterday I
heard some issue about the lab.
The lab #8 for this week there's a
discussion board on this lab in the
Forum for the laboratory so you can go
there and see there are some possible
solutions to the problem or issue.
And also I up updated the manual for the
lab so you can have a look again in the
manual that there were some two issues.
Initialization of the array and also why?
Uh, for the for the lab we only need
to count from zero to 7, but in the lab
manual I said we need a bit incremental,
so I put a comment there as well so.
We can start now right now.
But we have only 27 students out
of I guess about 120 students.
I'm not sure why.
We have a I mean.
A few students, the class.
Maybe there's midterm exam.
Do you have any idea why others
think cannot attend the class
or they don't attend the class?
No idea.
OK, let's start. So sound.
Does the modular program have to be
the same as the one in the lab manual?
No, as long as you write your function,
and that's fine. For instance,
in the lab I said that put your
function in the same main file.
You can separate it into
another source or header files.
As long as it is modular,
that's fine. Um?
Some may be watching the recordings.
Yes, maybe others. Actually, yes,
uh, they just watch the recordings.
OK, um I'm going to start today's lecture.
Uh, basically. So far that was our trip
from the first week of this semester.
Uh, where we said that we studied a Odyssey
another seeming that we want to
see how a computer system is built.
From the very smallest units,
the digital gates or the end and or
and why we do that because we want
to process the information and the
information if they are continuous,
we have to make it discreet and we
built a numbering system that is
a system that will represent the
discrete units and now we need to
build a machine that process the
information in discrete units.
So that was the outer start.
For this semester.
And this was our road map,
so we start from numbering systems,
how to represent discrete units
and then we said that we choose
the binary numbering system.
Becausw it is more robust because
of the engineering issues.
We said that the binary system is more
robust to noise that that's why we
choose among all the numbering systems.
Decimal, octal, hexa.
We choose the binary system and
then based on the binary system
because also it had some mathematic
background from Boolean algebra.
So we said that that was a good choice
to build a system on top of that.
Then we introduced logic gates that
these are just basically some small
units that process the binary units.
Oh, binary variables an or X or an etc.
And then we start designing some
more complex circuits such as.
The example it was in in the exam,
for instance incremental or I mean
design the circuit by some of midterms
or a product of the Max terms and
then simplify them and attach.
So we are in the middle of
our trip or our expedition.
We have three more steps up until
building a computer system,
so we have to be patient for
the next few weeks that how can
we build a computer system.
But so far we are here whatever we design
so far is called combinational logic.
Next week I'm going to explain
more about the combination logic,
but whatever we design so far,
we minimize so far.
And the final circuit we call
them large combination logic.
Compared to another type of logic with
which we design in the next few weeks,
which is which we call sequential logic.
So we are in the middle of the trip.
After this reading week.
So when we design A circuit,
we said that it is good to
simplify or minimize that,
and because of these factors we
want to make a cheap circuit.
We want to make a small circuit.
The less number of gates the better,
or the less number of input to the gate,
the better, reducing the cost,
reducing the area of circuit an etc.
We said that one possible way to
minimize is the using the Boolean
algebra postulates whatever we did so
far was based on the Boolean postulates.
For instance,
the compliment postulate or
the distributive posture than,
etc.
But the one thing is that I think you
get this that would using Boolean
algebra to minimize a function.
It is very hard.
Basically when you have more
than three or four variables.
It becomes a lot of.
I mean,
the Boolean expression becomes very
long and keep track of the old.
I mean terms and then distributive
postulate and etc is very hard
and time consuming.
As a result.
And also there is no algorithm for that.
And at the end of the day,
if somebody asks you that,
Are you sure that the final expression is
minimized or you cannot minimize it anymore?
You're not sure because there might be
some pasta that you forget to use or etc.
And as I said, it needs a little bit genius.
Or I mean being smart to minimize the
circuit because of these issues with
the Boolean algebra for minimization.
We go to the next approach
to minimization today,
which is called carnal map
or K map or map method.
These are different names for this approach
or this method map or K map or corner map.
And also sometimes we call it
graphical manipulation so the previous
one was algebraically manipulated
Boolean expression to minimize that.
This time we say that graphical
manipulation an will see why we
call this graphical manipulation.
The beauty of this approach is this.
It is an algorithm, so it's very
straightforward and you have this.
I mean take some few steps.
And then after taking all these steps,
you are sure that the final result
is minimal or it is minimized
and there are some limitations
to this approach as well.
We'll see what is the limitation
for this approach,
but at least it's better than
the Boolean algebra because you
know that at the end of the day
your expression is minimal.
And it is algorithm.
So there is no need to be genius
or being smart. And this approach,
proposed by Morris karnaugh
That's why we call this karnaugh map, because
it is proposed by Karnaugh was karnaugh.
He is a physicist and mathematician
and also an inventor.
When he was working at Bell Labs 1954.
He proposed a method as we
said the map method.
You can find this paper in the Internet
that in this paper he showed that
there is a better or algorithmic
way to minimize a circuit and today
we want to introduce his method.
Karnaugh map K map.
So let's start with when we
have only one binary variable,
which we call this one variable corner map.
The idea of karnaugh is this.
It says that he says that instead
of just having the truth table and
then writing the sum of midterms or
Max terms and then simplify that,
let's show the truth table in another way.
So here you can see that this is a
truth table with one binary variable,
X is zero or one the input and the output
depends on which mean terms becomes one.
You write the Boolean expression for that.
karnaugh says we can reach.
I mean draw.
Redraw this two.
Step it like this.
So this is another I mean illustration
for the truth table we could say
that X is either zero or one.
So here X is either zero or one.
Here is X is either zero or one.
Midterm 0 Amit and one becomes like this.
Midterms are Amazon so as you can see here
there's just a redrawing in another way.
The one variable came up so in the
right side we call this one variable.
Corner map.
In the left side you have
the truth table for that.
What is the two variable?
If you have two variable?
The two variable of the corner map is this,
so in the left side we have
the normal truth table X&Y.
So these are the name
of the binary variables.
You can say AB or whatever and we
have only one output variable F and
different possibilities in the input
000110111 and based on different
possibilities we have midterms,
midterm 0 up until May 10,
three or Max terms.
If there are one we call it mean terms.
If there are zero Max steps.
But karnaugh says that let's
show this truth table like this.
We put X in the column. Why in the rows?
And then, oh, we put them in terms like this.
X is either zero or one.
Why is either zero or one if both are 000?
This is the midterm 0X0Y0 midterm 0,
as the same here, but it's 00 midterm 0.
If X is 1, Y is zero.
We have limited one.
If X is zero, why is 1 this cell?
We have met him two the same as here,
so if X is zero,
why is one we have mid term 2.
I'm meeting three is when
both variables are one,
so X is 1,
Y is 1.
So you may wonder why we want to
redraw the truth table like this.
You can see in a few slides why we do
that and be careful about the way we
put the midterms in the corner map for
different size one or two or other.
I mean higher variable K map.
So the order matters.
So in this way that we put
X here and why here?
00 midterm 01 and then comes here 2/3.
So this is not light.
If truth table that you put 0123
I mean in order here we put like
this 01 and then come here 2 free.
Why is that?
Because because of these columns
so X IS0Y0 it is mid term 0X is 1,
Y is zero.
It is mid term 1.
Return to is X0Y is 1 and
then X is 1 wise one.
Because of this order that
we put the columns and rows,
the midterms gonna be like
this in these cells.
So now let's see why we
choose the corner map.
Imagine we have the Boolean function FX&Y,
which is only becomes one when
we have 0 zero in the input
or F is mid term 0X bar Y bar.
In the corner map it is like this,
so X is zero, Y is 0.
The midterm 0 becomes one.
So we could say that we we don't have X.
Or expert. And why bar?
Very similar to the Boolean expression,
so so far there is no
advantage for the K map.
Both are the same.
If, for instance,
Boolean function becomes one,
whenever X is 1 and Y is zero,
it is mid term 1.
As we already know, but in the corner
map the same in the corner map,
this cell becomes one Y
because X is 1 and Y is 0.
So we could say that XY bar.
Which is midterm 1.
This is another sample
whenever F becomes one.
When we have, we don't have
X or X is 0 and we have Y.
The same as here X for Y.
And the last one is here X.
Why so let me tell free?
So so far both are the same.
I just wanted to show that I
mean corner map is exactly the
same as the truth table in terms
of representing the Boolean
function based on the midterms.
Now you see from now on you see
what's the advantage of the karma.
Imagine we have the Boolean function F
that becomes one when we have midterm 0
and mitten one these two. So basically,
so far we did that M0 or M1M0 is X bar,
Y bar or XY bar and then using the Boolean a
postulate using the distributive postulate,
we can extract XY bar and then we have
export or X using the compliment postulate.
We could say that everything or with
the compliment itself becomes the
identity element of the end which is 1.
And then at the end of the day we have Y bar,
so this is the simplified version
of this Boolean function.
So you have to remember the Boolean postulate
you have to apply them up until here.
But let's see what happens
in the karnaugh map.
In the karnaugh map.
As you can see here these two
midterms midterms era midterm one
these two becomes two adjacent cells.
In the corner,
we can say that we can create
1 shared region or one region.
From those that have adjacent cells.
So here we have these two midterms adjusting
to each other so we can create one.
Let me do this.
We can create 1 shared cell.
Out of these two midterms,
an indeed and this. Shared region.
X is either zero or one,
so X doesn't matter the value of X.
The only thing matters is the value of Y,
because in this region Y must be 0.
X doesn't matter, either zero or one,
so you can rewrite the
Boolean function as this.
Whenever we don't have Y or whenever Y is 0.
Followed by the not becomes one,
so it is why bar so in one single step
just by creating a shared region you
come up with the simplified version.
Compared to the Boolean algebra,
to use two formalization you have
to write the Boolean expression.
Use the postulate to come up
with the simplified version.
But here,
because now you can see that it is called
why we call it graphical manipulation,
because we see how can we create the
shared region by adjusting cells.
Create 1 shared region and then in
this region we care about those
variables that are important.
Here X is either zero or one.
It doesn't matter.
The only thing actually matters is the Y.
So Y bar in this region.
Why must be 0 in order to four F become one?
So here is another example.
Imagine we have another function F.
This time F becomes one whenever X is zero,
Y is one, or X is 1. Why is 1?
So these are midterm 2 amateur free.
Again, if you want to minimize
this Boolean expression,
you have to write the midterms in the
Canonical form and then using the
distributive postulate you have to extract Y.
And then complement password.
These two becomes one and then at the
end of the day you have minimized form,
which is F is equal to Y,
meaning that whenever Y is 1F becomes one.
But in the corner map as you can see here,
but just one look at the economy that we
see that these two cells are adjacent,
so we can create 1 shared region an in
this shared region X doesn't matter.
Is it one or zero?
The only thing matters is Y.
So F is equal to Y.
Whenever Y is 1,
the F becomes one.
So you see how this is simple
just by looking at the adjustment
cells in the corner map,
you can simply minimize the
Boolean function in one step.
This is another example
for two variable karnaugh map.
Imagine we have the Boolean function here.
M1 meaning that when X IS1Y0F becomes
one and also whenever both are 1X is 1,
NY is 1F becomes one.
So F is mid term one and term 3.
So you have to minimize that if you
want to minimize that you this X is,
you can use the distributive postulate,
extract X and then.
This is the complement postulate becomes one,
and then you have the
minimized version of that.
But let's see what happens in economy in
the condo map if you put the midterms.
So this is mid term 0.
Mission one. Midterm 2 amateur 3.
So as here,
mid term one is 1 Amit and three is 1.
So by looking at the condo map you
can see that there is a shared
region between these two cells.
You can create 1 shared region
and this region why either zero
and one doesn't matter.
The only thing matters is that
X is always one in this region
so you can simply say that F is
equal to X whenever X is 1F is 1.
So that's why we call it graphical
manipulation just by creating
some region and then see in that
region what variables actually
matters in order to make F1.
This is another example very
similar to previous example,
but this time F becomes one whenever
we have midterms zero, an midterm 2.
If you put it in the corner map,
this is midterm 0 and this is my term 2.
So here again, you can see that
there is a shared region here,
so you can simply draw a circle
here and say that in this region.
Why doesn't matter?
The only thing is the only thing
matters is X and whenever X is 0.
F becomes one, so you could say that X bar.
So whenever we don't have X or X is zero,
X bar becomes one and F becomes one.
Here is another example.
So imagine we have a Boolean
function F which becomes one for the
midterm 0 midterm, one an midterm 2.
So in the left side you have the mid term
012 and now you have to minimize that.
So in order to minimize that you have
to extract Y bar here and this is the
minimized version of the XI mean.
The F. And again if I ask you is
this minimized and you are sure
you could say that I'm not sure.
Maybe I there is another poster
that I can make it more.
Simplified version,
but let's see what happens in the karnaugh map.
In the condo map you can see that.
There are some adjusting cells,
so these two cells are adjusting these
two cells or adjustments on etc.
So you can create some adjustment cells.
But be careful whenever we
create adjustments,
shared region based
on the adjustments cells.
We don't create a shared by
diagonal whenever vertically
or horizontally shared cells.
So in this terms,
so this cell and this cell are
not considered adjustment.
Only these two and these two
are considered adjacent,
so and then we create shared region.
So the first shared region is.
As you can see here the this one.
In this region.
You see that X doesn't matter,
either zero or one.
The only thing matters is why?
So why must be 0 in order
to for F to become one.
So we could say that why board this is 4.
This shared region.
Another cell is this one.
In this cell,
X must be zero and Y must be one.
So X bar Y. And this is for.
And this is for this cell.
The nice property of a.
karnaugh map is that you can
create this shared region.
So instead of creating this
when you have only white bar,
you can create an this way
to create shared region.
So you can consider these
two sets of adjustment.
And now in this shared region X is 0.
And the value of why doesn't matter?
So Expore makes F1.
And this singles sell here, which is X.
X is 1 and Y bar.
So you can create different
shared region Incarna map.
Very similar if you do the Boolean
function Boolean possible to
minimize the Boolean expression
instead of extracting ybor,
you can extract export this time.
And becomes this.
And now this is the beauty of the economy.
Incarna map. Not only you can create
shared vision by horizontal or vertical,
but also you can create
a overlappings regions.
In the right side, if you see.
This is this was the first region we created.
Which was why bar.
And we had only one cell.
We can say that we can extend
this region to overlap with the
previous one and we have another
shared region here which is expert.
And this is the simplified version.
And now let's see what happens
with the Boolean postulate.
If you want to minimize that Boolean past,
I mean of expression
using Boolean postulates.
That's very difficult. Why?
Because you have to, for instance,
here you extract Y bar
You remember that I said
at the end of the day?
You are not sure that you're.
Expression is minimized.
So in the Boolean expression you remember,
we end up with this expression
as the minimized form.
But now I'm saying that no,
you can minimize it more.
And this is the way you can minimize it more.
So you extract ybar.
Here this terms becomes one.
As you can see here.
However, you can replicate the
Boolean function as we already know,
using the theory of A or B
is equal to A or B or B.
You can repeat a term multiple times,
so you can repeat this one.
Again here and then, extract Explorer.
And then this becomes one and an end of day.
You have this minimized version.
So you see in the Boolean.
Way you have to go these steps
and also you have to be a smart
where to replicate, determine etc.
But karnaugh map you can simply
create some shared region,
either overlapping or nonoverlapping,
to come up with the minimized
version of the Boolean function.
Another thing is here.
This is another example.
If you have a Boolean function F
that in all midterms it becomes one.
So it is written 0123 an if
you are asked to minimize that,
you have to write the terms you
have to use the Boolean function,
Boolean, postulate an, etc.
Up until you reach the one.
Because you see that the Boolean function
F is always one regardless of the input,
but you have to follow all
these steps by Boolean parsley.
But in Karnaugh map you see that
these cells are all adjustment.
So you can create 1 shared region
containing all the cells and in
all these cells whether X is zero
or one and Y is 01 doesn't matter,
it is always one.
At one step you can come up with once.
Large region in this large region
the value of X&Y doesn't matter,
it's always F is 1.
Is there any question so far?
So you got the idea of the corner map.
Basically, in the corner map you
just put the minterms in karnaugh
map and try to create some region
shared region based at Justin cells.
And I think if you go to the
three variable and four very well,
you see that how it is easy using Connor
map to simplify a Boolean function.
Any question?
Awesome, so Cameron and Jackson is all.
So just to make sure that
everyone has the focus.
I mean like our tradition,
please send me some feedback.
Thank you so zachary Kevin.
Thank you Michael.
Yeah that's a sunny day.
Yeah Nick Matthew ben
Alicia we have
35 student in the class,
so I'm waiting for accounting
all this feedback.
Thank you all.
So seems everybody has the focus,
so let's continue. Thank you Philip's
awesome so here not only Cana.
Map helps us to know how can
we minimize a Boolean function.
It also helps us whenever we see that there
is no way to minimize a Boolean function.
Imagine we have this
function F is equal to 1.
Whenever we have midterm wanan midterm 2.
So. You write normally.
You write the Boolean functions,
missing one and two,
and then you write the Boolean expression
and then you want to minimize that.
You have to try and remember all
those postulates and see how can you
use those pastor to minimize it.
Moran etc.
And at the end of the day you
cannot say that I cannot.
I'm sure that there is no way to
minimize this Boolean function.
However, in the karnaugh map,
when you write it in karnaugh map like this.
By just one look, you see that there
is no adjustment cells in karnaugh map.
So as we said,
for instance,
these two cells are not adjacent
because they don't share any edge,
or they don't share vertical or
horizontal edge with each other.
So by just one look you see that
there is no way to minimize this.
And you just simply write out the
minterms so this is midterm 1,
which is X&Y bar XY bar,
and this is export Y.
I so can only combine adjusting boxes.
Yes, Nick, as I said yes.
So these two are not adjustment.
So because they are diagonal and so they
don't share any edge with with each other,
so we don't consider these
two as an adjustment,
so these are not adjustment.
As a result, whenever we see some
diagonal area in the economy,
we can say that.
We cannot minimize that part
of the corner map.
And another interesting thing here is this.
If I want to make a gate
out of this expression,
what would be the gate?
Apart from the and and or XY bar or export Y,
what's the gate correct
then this is exclusive or?
The thing is that in the kernel map,
that's interesting that whenever
you see a diagonal cells that we
cannot create the shared region
and you cannot minimize that,
you are sure that there is no way to
minimize that and also it hits you
that there is some exclusive or gate.
Involved. Sorry guys.
So not only helps us to say that it's not,
there's no way to minimize the
Boolean expression bottled,
so it gives me a hint that there
is some exclusive or in between.
So here you can simply say that
this is a diagonal cell here,
and this is exactly X exclusive or with Y.
So you see, that's how easy is?
I mean, how make life easier?
The corner map make life easier for us.
This is another example that
you cannot minimize it anymore
using the Boolean postulate.
For instance, if F becomes one or so,
I have to make this cell and this
cell green so it is become one
whenever we have a mid term zero
and mid term here mid term free.
I have to fix that as well.
But as you can see here,
if you write this midterms,
there's no way to minimize that using the
Boolean function expression of postulates.
But if you write that in the Cana map,
you can see that there are diagonal
and there is no way to make a
shared region out of these cells.
So you see that there is no way to
minimize that, but just one look,
and I think is that again you
have a diagonal, but it's not.
I mean this diagonal.
This is this way,
this diagonal in the middle.
This this is the main yes,
the main diagonal, and this is the.
Ha.
What do you call this diagonal?
There's. Anyways,
so whenever we have this diagonal,
this helps us with exclusive or.
And whenever we have this title,
discs helps us with the exclusive nor.
So as you can see here,
it's very easy to figure out that
there is no way to minimize that first,
and then what other type of case
such as I mean actually true or
or exclusive, nor is involved.
And now let's move on to
three variable kana map. So.
In three variable kana map.
So we have to be a little bit more
careful how we can create the three
variable colormap in free variable in the
left side we have the normal truth table.
In the right side,
in order to create a free variable conoma,
we basically do this.
We merge 22 variable kana map.
So we have. One variable, two variable.
Wanna map in the right?
So X&Y we have another.
Version of that X&Y.
If you merge them so it becomes like this.
So we have XY in the column side XY.
Goes to column side.
And then we have the last.
Binding variable in the roadside.
Dizzy goes to roadside.
And now let's see what's the order
of the midterms. So as I said,
order matters in the corner map,
you cannot Simply put all the
midterms in any way you want.
You have to follow an order,
so when X is zero, Y is zero and Z is 0.
So this is the midterm 0,
so you put midterms right here.
When X is 1.
As you can see here we have XY,
so XYX is 1.
Why is 0Z zero?
So this is midterm 1.
And then if X is 1, Y is 1
and Z is 0, this is midterm 3.
And then access zero.
Y is one Z0. So mid term 2.
So you have to check the value of
the binary variables in each cell.
And then put the mid term in that cell.
So for instance here mid term
7 why we put Medium 7 here?
Because in this cell X is 1.
Why is 1 and this one?
In this area.
YZ is 1X1 and Y is 1 mid term sub.
So if you want to make an order
this is the way we put them in
terms of three variable conoma.
01 comes here 2 Three comes
here for five and then go to
the other side six step.
So the order in carnal map you
have to practice a lot in a way
that you memorize the order.
So whenever you want to draw
the three variable economat,
you have to do it quickly.
You have to practice a lot and
you have to kind of memorize,
not by memorizing something
by reading memorized.
By practicing,
you have to practice a lot to make it.
I mean part of your.
I mean your mind that.
Whenever you have a free variable by a free,
very bikana map,
this is the order.
So we have a question here by now.
Could we have written our headers for X&Y as?
Changing midterms as well.
I Nick you can do that.
You can do that,
but that's not the standard way.
So you can put for instance here.
You said that this is the
order of between X&Y, so X&Y.
So the first is X, the second is Y,
so you can say that 00 and then 01,
and then 1 zero, and then one one.
You can do that,
but this is not the standard way and.
That's your way.
So I this is the standard way that we follow.
But at the end of the day,
whatever your standard is,
you have to be careful about the
meetings where you put the midterms.
So what I can suggest is that follow this
standard because if you go your own way
and then you put answer in the exam, etc.
Although you're correct,
but because it's not well known
so you may lose some marks.
So we have another question by Philip so.
You always right toward the middle.
That is when you hit the middle,
you start from the correct.
We have to see the same thing
in the four variable Econom app,
but you can.
I can say that yes,
you are correct for the free variable
Karnaugh map you start from here mid
term 01 and then go to the other side
2-3 and then come to the 2nd row
4-5 to the other side 6 seven yeah.
Yes. So. And now let's see.
Let's practice on the three variable
Cana map some Boolean function
for the free variable conoma.
But before that, let's see the area that we
have the binary variables at zero or at one.
So as you can see here,
when we put this zero in the row side,
this second row is always Z is 1
in all the second rows in this row.
Whenever we have a midterms in these,
midterms is always one.
Within 4567. This always one.
So that's why we call this.
This is the area that we have Z.
In the first row, however,
we have the area that always zero is,
Z is always 0. So then we say that
in the first row we have Z bar.
So first row Z bar, 2nd row Z.
Let's see what happens with the X&Y.
For the Y in this region in this region.
Why is always one?
As you can see here for the midterm 2367,
if you check always, why is 1?
For assessment M6, if you go here,
why is always one item 7?
Why is always one also mtem two and three?
Always wise one.
In the economy of this right side of
the economy, map is always one is.
Why is 1? In the left side,
why is always 0?
So in the left side we have Y bar.
How about X? In the.
In these cells in the middle of the
economy map in the free variable,
X is always one.
As you can see here for the meeting,
1357X is always one.
But my question is that where is?
The region for export.
Xplore.
As you can see here.
In this column.
X is always 0. And also in
this color. X is always 0.
So these cells are the area of explore,
but you see that you can say that why for the
other binary variables they are continuous.
They are adjustment.
But for export these are not adjustment.
These are two separate part of the Conoma.
What I can say is this actually when the
carnal proposed the map the His method,
he said that my map.
Is not a 1A surface,
it's a continuous surface.
So basically the condo map are not just this.
Call map is this.
Originally so if you see
this Konami this column up,
or just A roll of a surface,
so basically this edge.
Is connected to this edge.
So as a result. We say that.
This area. And this area is connected
and this area is the Explorer.
So what's the? What's the point of this?
The point is that you can create adjustment
cells or a shared region in the condo map.
In these edges, so we can say that N 0.
In this edge is adjacent
to end two in this edge.
Because these edges these edges
are connected to each other.
Also this ad this ad is also
connected to this edge as a result.
Not only am 7 is adjacent
to amplify this edge,
but also it is adjacent to M3 by this edge.
So these are all connected to each other.
Haha. Yeah Andrew, so let's practice
on the free variable colormap.
So imagine we have the Boolean function here.
FXYZ the midterm 0123 and
then mid term six and seven.
So these are the metrics.
And imagine you are given this Boolean
function in the exam to minimize
that using the Boolean postulates.
So you have to write them all and then
you have to again use the distributive.
Just let other possibilites to minimize this,
so practice at home and you you
will find that that's very hard.
For instance here you have to
extract this one and this one.
To get rid of the axe and etc.
But let's see what happens
in the free variable.
Comma in three variable Connor map.
If you remember the mid term.
So this is midterm 0,
Milton 1, midterm 2,
mitten 3 midterm 4 little 5
and then go to the other side.
Midterm 6 I met him 7.
What are the meetings that make F 101236701?
2367 I put one to those midterms that
makes F1 and other cells are zero because
they don't make F1 so we have this conoma.
Now we have to minimize
the Boolean expression.
So what are the shared region?
This is the first one.
The whole first roll.
They are adjusting so you create this
shared region in this shared region
the value of X&Y doesn't matter.
The only thing matters is the value of Z,
which is 0. So Z bar, what else?
You can create this shared region.
In this shared region,
the value of X doesn't matter why?
Because in this region XI eyes are
zero or one, so doesn't matter.
Why is always one and Z is 1, so ZY?
As I said, you can extend the
region to have overlap regions,
so we can have this.
In this region,
the value of Z doesn't matter,
either zero or one in this region.
The value of Z doesn't matter.
The value of X doesn't matter.
The only thing matters is why.
As we said, the right side of the conoma.
Why is 1? And this is the.
A minimized version.
So you see how easy it is to minimize
a Boolean function using the karma.
So just from the 1st.
One region.
Two region and that's it,
and you write the Boolean
binary Boolean function based
on the binary variables in
those regions that matters.
So one thing is that.
When you create the shared region.
How many binary variables
actually you are minimizing?
Here you create a shared vision
of four cells. As a result,
you get rid of two binary variables.
Four is 2 to the power of two,
so you remove two variables X&Y.
Here you create a shared region of.
Two cells, two is 2 to the power of 1.
So you remove one variable and if
you extend this it becomes four
cells adjacent to each other.
Four is 2 to the power of two,
so you remove two variables from
the Boolean expression and.
Those two variables are Z, an X.
So you see the trick.
So in Kano Map,
whenever you create a region in that region,
you have N cells.
He then.
How many variables actually you are
removing you're trying to remove logann
to the power of two to the base of two.
So if you have a region of two cells,
you're removing one variable.
If you have a region of four cells,
you are removing two variables.
If you are creating a region of eight,
you're removing free variable,
so be careful about this that
it's kind of gives you a hint
that when you create the region.
How many variables you are trying to
remove and my question is that is it
possible to create a region of free cells?
For instance,
am I allowed to create let me?
Erase this. My question is that.
Am I allowed to create this shared region?
These are adjusting cells.
They shared it horizontally.
But the answer is that no why,
because if you create this
shared region in this region.
In this cell.
The value of both X&Y matters.
And also the value of Z matters.
So if you create this shared region,
you are not.
You cannot remove any variable.
So by three cells you are
not removing any variables.
You have to create based on the
powers of two adjacent cells
to remove a binary variable.
Any questions so far?
So that's a hint.
Incarna map whenever you create a region,
you have to create the region
based on the powers of two.
And as a result you are
removing binary variables
based on the powers of two so.
A region of two cells.
Remove one variable region of four cells.
Two variable 8 cells,
free variables, etc.
You never have a region of.
Free Regional 5 region of 6 because
these are not powers of two,
so these regions are not allowed
in Cana map because it's not
removing any Bonaire variables.
Any questions?
OK, so so far we practice on some of
products or SOP based on the midterms.
So the question is that in the truth table
we could design the circuit using maxterms.
Is it possible to do the same?
In the corner map or no,
the answer is yes, so the same way as
in the truth table when you write it
as a sum of Max product of maxterms,
you have to look at those entries.
That makes the F0. So for instance,
in this example F becomes zero in the
maxterm file for an the maximum 5.
And then you have to write the Max
terms and you have to minimize that.
Honesty, minimizing the maxims.
For me it's very hard,
so I cannot usually handle this
type of minimization,
But let's see what happens in
the corner map in the corner map.
Is still you have the same Max terms,
so these are the midterms that
makes the output one,
so those says R0R the Max terms so it's
still you have the maximum four and five.
But here you can create a
shared vision of two cells,
but let's see what happens here.
If we create a shared region of cells,
those cells are zero.
You can simply say that.
If you write the Boolean function for F bar,
so you see. The difference here is the F.
This is F. If we write the Boolean
function for F bar, what happens?
We we know that when we do F4,
whenever F becomes one,
now becomes zero and whenever F becomes 0,
now becomes one.
So if you make it F for basically
this happens in the corner map.
All this says that where one becomes zero and
the cells that were zero now becomes one.
So I assume that I want to minimize
the F bar using corner map.
So now we have two cells with
one adjustment to each other.
So in this cell the value of Z is 1,
the value of Y is 0.
The value of X is either zero and one.
So the value of X doesn't matter and this
is the minimized Boolean function for F bar.
So if I apply another bar,
we already know that F4 bar becomes F.
So this is the minimized version of the F4I.
Apply another board to bring
it back to the F.
So if you apply that,
it becomes this by the D Morgan's law.
So you see how it is easy to use the
contour map even for the Max terms.
If you have the Boolean function
as the product of maxterms.
You basically create shared vision
of the zeros.
And then followed by the not.
So here is. The summary we have the Boolean
function F based on the truth table.
Some of my terms or product of maxterms if
you minimize each of these Boolean functions,
we end up with the same minimized version.
By the cell. Is that are one or by the cells
that are zero followed by another nut.
So let's practice on this example.
Imagine you have the Boolean function F,
which is midterm 0,
midterm 2, four and six.
We have to write it down and
then minimize that.
It's very hard.
But let's see what happens in the
corner map in Econo Map if you
follow the midterms and put the
one for those that makes F1 it
becomes like this midterm 0 midterm.
One is here 2345.
And then six step.
So as you can see here,
we can create a shared region.
Either these two.
And these two or we said that the
economy is continuous. This ad.
Is connected to this edge.
So we can create a whole shared region of.
These four cells we create 4
cells as a region.
We remove two variables. So by this.
What variables actually are removing?
As we said, this is the area of export,
so in this region the value of Y doesn't
matter, because why is either zero or one?
Also, the value of Z doesn't matter
because this is either zero or one.
So here is the region for export.
So by just one look at the favorable
economy map you end up with this
minimize version and now if I ask
you to use the Boolean possible to
minimize this and end up with this,
it's a nightmare to me at least.
And now let's see if I write this Boolean
function as the product of maxterms.
So in terms of the Max terms,
these are the Max terms for maxims
one maxterms, 3/5 and seven.
And this is the Max terms and now you have
to minimize it using the Boolean password.
That's a nightmare, but let's see what
happens in the karnaugh map in the corner map.
I say that I imagine that I'm writing
the minimized version for F bar.
So F body cells becomes one was that
R0 in the F becomes one in the F bar.
I create a region.
And this region is 4X.
Followed by did not, which is X bar.
You see how easy it is to create a minimized
version even in the form of maxterms?
And now let's move on to the
four variable car map in the
full variable corner map.
Here is a forward.
We put the first 2 variable in
the column side. We put the.
The last two binary
variable in the row side.
So XY, so if we create the truth
table it becomes X. Why and then ZW?
So you could say that I put I would put WNZ,
but that was the invention here,
so ZW just to be compatible with
the free variable economat.
So now let's focus on the
order of the midterms.
So if you check each cell for instance,
here M 13. In S13, X is 1.
Why is 0? Here ZNW is both or one.
11 and this is the binary variable for 13.
If this is X,
This is why this is Z and this is W.
On etc. If you check for other cells
you see that this is the order an.
If you want to come up with
a road map for the midterms,
this is the road map.
The first 2 rows are the same
as favorable Connor map, so 01.
Go to the other end 2-3 and then
second row 4-5 to the other end.
6-7 you are done with the
first 2 rows and then you come
with this second to Rose.
You go here 8.
You see here from M7 you up
to here to the last row.
Eight 910 eleven and come here.
1213 go to the other side, 14th.
So it's kind of a kind of a labyrinth.
But yes, that's the way before the
midterms in the four available karma.
If you practice, you find it very easy,
but at the first it might be very confusing,
but you have to practice, yeah?
Yes, I see that.
That's the way you put the midterms.
Are you have to practice a lot
so 01234567 you are done with
the first roll to Roseanne,
then you come up with this side.
The last row 8-9 ten 11-12 thirteen 1415.
So the last midterm is here at 10:15.
XY is 1 one ZW is 1 one.
So let's practice on this Boolean function.
For instance, we have FXYZ as these midterms.
How many meetings do you have?
123456789, ten, 11.
We have 11 midterms and you have to
minimize that and imagine that you had to
do it using the Boolean posture at all.
What happens with the economy?
If you put these midterms as the
one in the Cana map, you have this.
A contour map 0123.
I put the midterms in the cells just
to give to help you and now let's
minimize that how many region we can
create adjustment region we can create.
The first immediate region if
you look at the economy is this.
In this region.
As you can see here we have a
region of eight midterms.
As a result, 8 is 2 to the power of three.
We are going to remove free binary
variables and what are those
binary variables in this cell?
In this region,
the value of Z&W doesn't matter
because either there are zero or one.
Also, the value of X doesn't matter
because is either zero or one.
The only thing matters is the value of Y,
which is always why is 0?
So why bar?
What is the next region?
If you attempt this shared region as I said,
this is a shared regional free cells.
An free is not a power of two,
so that's wrong.
And the reason is that for this cell.
Here matters that the value of W must be one.
You cannot simply say that the value
of W is either zero or one because
in this cell the value of YW is 1 and
you cannot consider this as a one.
So here's the reason that you cannot
create a regional free or any
cells that are not powers of two.
So in order to fix that,
you have to make it this region.
So Tool sells 2 to the power of
1 to one variable removed,
which is which variable the value
of Z because the value of these
either zero or one.
And in this region X is zero
and Y is 1, so. Export why and
the value of WWE is 0 so W bar.
But how about the last sell?
This one so you can say that?
There is no way to make a region from this
cell, so we have to write the whole midterm.
So this is the midterm 14.
But if you be a little bit more cautious,
you can create.
You can expand this regions.
How here is the way?
You can expand this cell with this
adjustment cell. Because it's still.
It's a power of two.
An in this cell you can get rid
of 1 binary variables, which is.
So again compare this.
This is the mid term export YZW
and if we create the region with
this cell because in this the
W is either zero or one Z is 1.
So you remove the W.
Also, you can expand this region.
With this region, as we said,
corner map is continuous,
so these edges are connected.
So you can create this cell.
This region. So before that.
The so let me raise holding so before that.
This cell.
Was only removing one variable.
This is the mid term for that.
The only thing actually removed is Z, but if
you expand this region with the left side.
It becomes original 4 cells.
As a result, you removing two variables and
what is that variable that you are removing?
That's the value of the Y,
because here in this region the
value of Y is either one or zero.
So you remove the Y.
Also for this cell.
These two cells that you create
here so for this for this cell.
You can create this.
Region as you can see here and then it
becomes a cell region of four cells.
So 2 to the power of two.
You remove two variables which becomes this.
If you try to expand the region anymore,
you see that there is no
other way to expand that,
so this is the minimized,
minimized version of this Boolean function,
and this is the logic circuit
after the minimization.
If you want to use the Max terms to
minimize the same but of Boolean function.
So you could say that the Max terms are
those terms that are not in the midterms,
so these are the maxims that Mexicana
Map 0 or the Boolean function 0.
And then you assume that these
are one and you try to minimize
them by creating a region.
So the first version is this.
You could say that this is the area.
Assume that you are trying to
write for F bar so they are one.
You have to imagine that they are one,
so you minimize that.
So it becomes like this
but followed by the nuts.
Because you write for F bar
followed by the not becomes F.
And also this cell.
Ride it Ford F Bar and
then followed by the nuts.
An at the end of the day,
if you apply the knot inside the
Parantheses Ubaidi Morgan's law,
you have this minimized version.
So again,
using corner map you can minimize
the product of maxterms by assuming
that those cells that are zero or
one and then create the region for
them and then followed by the not.
Correct Nick, yes you have to create
the region 1st and then try to expand
the regions based on the powers of two.
If you can do that,
you expand it more the more you have,
the larger region you have.
The less number of variables you have,
but you have to be careful that you
expand this on the powers of two.
So for instance,
you cannot expand it diagonally.
So what I want to show is this.
I let me open this up.
A link for you.
If you go to the Wikipedia for the corner
map, there is a more explanation on that,
but what I want to show you is this.
You see this. This is the way that
the economy actually is working.
So again, let's let's come back.
So at first you see a surface,
but this surface is a role for
free variable and then the edges
of the role is also connected.
This is a Taurus so econo map for
the four variable is a Taurus.
So you have to consider that
the edges of the table are also
connected in the 3D dimension.
Whi I'm showing this becausw
let's back to the. Here.
If you have the corner map and then
naked the tourist out of that,
you see that these cells
are actually adjustments,
although they are not adjustment
in the Cana map.
As you can see,
but as we said this these edges are
connected and also these edges are connected.
As a result,
if you have a midterms 028 an 10.
You can create a region 1 region.
Because the if you create
the tourist out of that,
they are adjacent and as a result this is
a region that the value of X is always 0.
The value of Y doesn't matter
because it is either zero or one.
The value of Z.
In this region is always 0.
And the value of W doesn't matter.
It is either zero or one.
And as a result, this Boolean
function becomes minimized as this.
You can think of this Boolean
function as the maxterms. So.
It might be better if you think of
this as a Max term, so then you have to
write it as the this is the Max terms.
Meet in 134567 Twelve 13 and attach
a so if you consider the Max terms,
they're all a lot of maxterms here.
But if you look at the condo map and
create two regions of eight cells each,
remove free variables.
So this is the area that you
only have Z as one.
Followed by the not.
This is the area that you have X.
Followed by the nut which becomes export
0 which is equal to the previous one.
Either the midterms or maxterms and with
the same minimized Boolean function.
So be careful that in reality
the corner map is a Taurus.
And then you can create adjustment
rich cells and create larger region.
So we have only one or two minutes.
I I want to show you a practice on how
to minimize our design using the conoma.
We already design this circuit.
We said that we want to create a comparator.
Basically we want to create a circuit
that say to us that whether X is
greater or equal than Y or not.
We already designed the ads
by midterms or maxterms.
And we had to minimize that.
So that was the design without minimization.
So and we said that because
the number of up back here.
Because the number of maxterms are
less than the number of midterms,
which shows a maxterm to design our second.
Because here we have 123456
maxims here we have.
11 meters,
so we said that because you have less
number of term in the maxims you choose
maxterms to design the circuits of midterms.
And that was the design.
Then you had to minimize
it by Boolean postulates.
But because you have these maxims
an if you want to use Boolean
postulate to minimize it,
it's very hard.
Let's see what happens with the economy map.
In the economy of the Boolean function
for the maximum midterms like this.
So this is the midterms that makes it one.
And those cells that are zero or Max terms.
If you start with the meters.
Here is the first region.
And then the second region and then
you have to cover all the midterms
you you shouldn't miss any midterms.
And then this region.
So you see here that.
I could create this cell.
As one of the terms, but I could
say that I can expand it this one.
Also, I could say that I can expand it
to this one or finally I can expand
it to this larger region so you have
to expand it based on the powers of two.
And this is the second largest region.
There is only one left which is here,
or two lefts and this what
happens with these two.
You can cover that one like this region.
And then.
You can cover this one
either with this one or.
With this one or larger cell
would be this overlapping region.
And this is the final minimized version.
In terms of the maxterms, again,
you can simply say that I just create
the region for zero, so this is 1 region.
Followed by the not.
This is a. One region.
Followed by the nuts you have to
cover all the cells that have 0.
How about this one you can create?
One region like this.
And we have 123 region and you have to
write a van and followed by the nut.
So here I just wanted to show that
instead of just X one X2Y1Y two
we can change variable to XYZ W.
To come up with the original corner
map and then write it down so
those says followed by the not.
The first one, the second one and the
last one, all followed by dead nuts.
And if you apply to the Morgan's
law, it becomes like this.
And this is the minimized version.
How about five variable color
map in the next lecture?
I'm going to show you that that's
the limit of the carnal map.
If you go to the five variable,
it's become very hard and etc.
So I'm going to explain what
happens if we have 567 and a
higher value high value variable,
Karnaugh map and basically what I can
say is that usually economy is useful.
Four or five, but higher than that,
it's very difficult to manage
the economy map.
There is another approach for
that that we discuss next lecture.
Thank you so much for your attention and uh.
I'm done with today's lecture next week.
I'm going to finish this topic
and then we start the next topic.
Uh, so if there's any question
I can take your questions.
I have a question about.
Can you go back to the last questions?
Maxims for a second?
Just wanna see if I got the same answer oyes,
here is the maximum neck.
Oh, thank you all.
Have a great day too and.
Take care so we have another call
in the middle and very supposed
to draw the minimized version.
Uh, in the midterm exam,
the last question was you
have to minimize that, yes?
Any questions I'm going to be in the
office, the Virtual Office to take
your questions. If you have any.
Thank you all and all of you.
The last question was not difficult.
Or just some tricks?
So basically the last question
has free output function instead
of just one output function,
But if you minimize that,
you find it very easy. Yeah.
So.
Over it in class.
Next time I will for sure yes I
I release the key first various.
I release the key and then you can
see their key and then next lecture
we can practice on some of them.
If you have time I have to
think about the time.
But uh, if you have questions,
you can drop by the office so I can
answer the question even I mean
today or on Tuesday if you want,
we can practice on that,
but wait until I release the key
and then you can see what's the
result and then we can practice.
Or we can explain.
I can explain more on the office hour.
Even as I said,
I mean right after this class you can
come there to the office and then I
I can explain more about that too,
yeah?
You too. So Matthew and Nathan OK.
Nathan, if you don't mind I'm going
to remove you from the class and
in order to close. OK, thank you.